                HYPOTHESES INTRODUCED BY THE OMN LAB

Both the saccadic and pursuit systems are normal in CN.
(Thesis-1968)

An Internal Monitor of efference copy is necessary for CN.
(Thesis-1968)

CN is superimposed on both the saccadic and pursuit outputs.
(Thesis-1968)

Corrective saccades require an internal monitor.  (METRICS-1971)

CN may result from a primary deficit in saccades.  (CN-1972)
*WRONG*

CN may be due to a high-gain instability in the smooth pursuit
system. (CN-1972)

Smooth pursuit is ipsilateral.  (Hemispherectomy-1972)

CN oscillates away from and back to the intended line of fixation.
(CN-1973)

CN is caused/intensified by fixation attempt.  (CN-1973)

Schizophrenics do not have a basic pursuit deficit.  (Sci.-1974)

The OKN asymmetry in INO is due to superposition of the slow
adduction saccades and the oppositely directed slow phases.
(INO-1974)

PAN is due to a time-varying neutral/null zone.  (PAN-1974)

There is considerable variabliity in saccadic velocity-amplitude
relationships.  (Vel. chars.-1974)

All CN is due to a motor instability.  (HCN-1974)

All saccades are generated by the same mechanism.  (Comp.
vel.-1975)

New visual information is continually available to alter the
latency or cause cancellation of a saccade.  (Lat.-1975)

An internal brain stem monitor (efference copy) mediates corrective
saccades.  (MSWJ-1975)

There are 12 CN waveforms.  (CN WF-1975)

CN slow phases are increasing-velocity exponentials.  (CN WF-1975)

Goal of CN subjects is prolonged foveation.  (CN WF-1975)

Periods of extended foveation due to fixation mechanism.  (CN
WF-1975)

Foveal function indicated by bias reversals (jitter).  (CN WF-1975)

Saccades may serve to brake a runaway SEM.  (Brk. sacc.-1976)

Saccadic pulses are responsible for the abduction "nystagmus" of
INO.  (INO-19??)

There is a local, resettable neural integrator in the saccadic
pulse generator that is distinct from the common, non-resettable
neural integrator responsible for maintaining eye position.
(GEN-1978)

The common neural integrator is controlled by a feedback loop
comparing its output to desired eye position; it can therefore
ignore pulse-generator pulses that would increase its output beyond
its desired value.  (GEN-1978)

The Anderson-Kestenbaum surgery has secondary effects: null
broadening, off-null damping, and damping at the null.  (CN
Surg-1979)

LMLN slow phases are linear or decelerating. (LMLN-1979)

LMLN is caused by egocentric confusion. (LMLN-1979 & 1981)

Strabismus is a necessary condition for LMLN.  (LMLN-1979 & 1983)

Early strabismus surgery may convert MLN to LN.  (LMLN-1983)

During pursuit, the CN neutral zone shifts opposite to the pursuit.
(CN&SP-1986)

Ocular dominance is genetically predetermined and independent of
early visual experience.  (LMLN-1987)

Sensory feedback of eye motion can be used to damp CN.  (Contact
lenses-1988)

OSOP is suppressed in CN by foveation periods within a foveation
window.  (OSOP1-1990,91) *WRONG*

The CN neutral-zone shift during pursuit is an asymmetric function
of eye velocity.  (FDCN2-1992)

The CN neutral-zone shift during VOR is tha same as during pursuit.
(FDCN3-1992)

OSOP in each plane is suppressed in CN by foveation periods within
a foveation window in that plane.  (OSOP2-1991,92) *WRONG*

The plane of OSOP in CN is determined by the plane of position or
velocity scatter of the foveation periods and not the plane of the
CN waveform unless the foveation periods in neither plane are well
developed.  (OSOP2-1991,92) *WRONG*

The ocular motor system is organized on an individual eye (muscle)
basis. (DRF-1994)

CN can be damped by use of afferent (electrical or mechanical)
stimulaiton of the forehead or neck. (CNAFSTM-1995)

The best corrected visual acuity in CN (LN etc.) can be determined
by use of waveform characteristics in the NAF. (CNAFSTM-1995)

The fast phases of LMLN may be either foveating or defoveating.
(LMLN-1995)

The same criteria for high visual acuity apply to LMLN as to CN.
(LMLN-1995)

OSOP is determined by ECPY and not by foveation periods.
(OSFPV-1997)

Achiasma alone may cause see-saw nystagmus. (ACMBS-1995,1997)

Hemichiasma may also cause see-saw nystagmus. (ACHCH-1998)

Simple dissection and suture can damp CN. (HYPSURG-1997)

An IM (ECPY) is necessary for OM control in LMLN.  (ARVO-1997)

Dissection and suture damps CN and SSN and possibly some forms of
AN. (TENOTSRGY-In Press)

CN is an instability waiting to happen since it is an exacerbation
of the normal ocsillatory behavior of the horizontal (more than the
vertical) smooth pursuit system.  (ARVO-1998)

An IM (ECPY) is necessary for OM control in CN.  (ARVO-1998)

An extended NAF (NAFX) can predict best corrected visual acuity
across subjects.  (ARVO-1998)

Most CN has a torsional component reflecting an additional plane of
instability.  (In prep.)
